packages/file-opener/README.md, before:

# @capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener

Capacitor plugin to open a file with the default application.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener
npx cap sync
```

### Android

You need to specify the directories that contain the files you want to open.
To specify the directories, start by creating the file `file_paths.xml` in the `res/xml/` subdirectory of your project (see [Android docs](https://developer.android.com/training/secure-file-sharing/setup-sharing#DefineMetaData)).  
This is an example:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<paths xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <files-path name="files" path="." />
    <cache-path name="cache" path="." />
    <external-files-path name="external-files" path="." />
    <external-cache-path name="external-cache" path="." />
    <external-path name="external" path="." />
</paths>
```

#### Variables

This plugin will use the following project variables (defined in your app’s `variables.gradle` file):

- `$androidxDocumentFileVersion` version of `androidx.documentfile:documentfile` (default: `1.0.1`)

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

| Android                                                                                                                         | iOS                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/185747140-7e59ca70-96c9-4d67-a3b3-8fd9c7eb1546.gif" width="324" /> | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/185747133-62a2b5e5-ff6f-4b30-871c-4c3609db7829.gif" width="266" /> |

## Usage

```typescript
import { FileOpener } from '@capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener';

const open = async () => {
  await FileOpener.openFile({
    path: 'content://com.android.providers.downloads.documents/document/msf%3A1000000073',
  });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`openFile(...)`](#openfile)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### openFile(...)

```typescript
openFile(options: OpenFileOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Open a file with the default application.

| Param         | Type                                                        |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#openfileoptions">OpenFileOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 0.0.1

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### OpenFileOptions

| Prop           | Type                | Description                                                                                                       | Since |
| -------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`blob`**     | <code>Blob</code>   | The blob instance of the file to open. Only available on Web.                                                     | 6.1.0 |
| **`path`**     | <code>string</code> | The path of the file. Only available on Android and iOS.                                                          | 0.0.1 |
| **`mimeType`** | <code>string</code> | The mime type of the file. If not specified, the mime type will be determined. Only available on Android and iOS. | 0.0.1 |

</docgen-api>

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/file-opener/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/file-opener/LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs(file-opener): update `README.md`

packages/file-opener/README.md, after:

# @capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener

Capacitor plugin to open a file with the default application.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener
npx cap sync
```

### Android

You need to specify the directories that contain the files you want to open. To do this, create a new file named `file_paths.xml` in the `res/xml` directory of your Android project (e.g. `android/app/src/main/res/xml/file_paths.xml`). Here is an example of the content of the file:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<paths xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <files-path name="files" path="." />
    <cache-path name="cache" path="." />
    <external-files-path name="external-files" path="." />
    <external-cache-path name="external-cache" path="." />
    <external-path name="external" path="." />
</paths>
```

More information can be found in the [Android documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/secure-file-sharing/setup-sharing#DefineMetaData).

#### Variables

This plugin will use the following project variables (defined in your app’s `variables.gradle` file):

- `$androidxDocumentFileVersion` version of `androidx.documentfile:documentfile` (default: `1.0.1`)

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

| Android                                                                                                                         | iOS                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/185747140-7e59ca70-96c9-4d67-a3b3-8fd9c7eb1546.gif" width="324" /> | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/185747133-62a2b5e5-ff6f-4b30-871c-4c3609db7829.gif" width="266" /> |

## Usage

```typescript
import { FileOpener } from '@capawesome-team/capacitor-file-opener';

const open = async () => {
  await FileOpener.openFile({
    path: 'content://com.android.providers.downloads.documents/document/msf%3A1000000073',
  });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`openFile(...)`](#openfile)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### openFile(...)

```typescript
openFile(options: OpenFileOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Open a file with the default application.

| Param         | Type                                                        |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#openfileoptions">OpenFileOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 0.0.1

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### OpenFileOptions

| Prop           | Type                | Description                                                                                                       | Since |
| -------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`blob`**     | <code>Blob</code>   | The blob instance of the file to open. Only available on Web.                                                     | 6.1.0 |
| **`path`**     | <code>string</code> | The path of the file. Only available on Android and iOS.                                                          | 0.0.1 |
| **`mimeType`** | <code>string</code> | The mime type of the file. If not specified, the mime type will be determined. Only available on Android and iOS. | 0.0.1 |

</docgen-api>

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/file-opener/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/file-opener/LICENSE).
