packages/datetime-picker/README.md, before:

# @capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker

Capacitor plugin for seamless date and time selection with advanced features like localization, theming, and more. Available for Android and iOS.

<div class="capawesome-z29o10a">
  <a href="https://cloud.capawesome.io/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Deliver Live Updates to your Capacitor app with Capawesome Cloud" src="https://cloud.capawesome.io/assets/banners/cloud-deploy-real-time-app-updates.png?t=1" />
  </a>
</div>

## Features

We are proud to offer one of the most complete and feature-rich Capacitor plugins for date and time picking. Here are some of the key features:

- 🖥️ **Cross-platform**: Supports Android and iOS.
- 📅 **Multiple modes**: Date, time, and datetime picker modes.
- 🌍 **Localization**: Support for BCP 47 language tags.
- 🎨 **Theming**: Auto, light, and dark theme support.
- ⚡ **Custom formats**: Define your own date/time format strings.
- 🔒 **Min/Max constraints**: Set minimum and maximum selectable dates/times.
- 📱 **Native UI**: Uses platform-specific picker components.
- ⚙️ **Flexible configuration**: Customizable button texts and picker modes.
- 🔁 **Up-to-date**: Always supports the latest Capacitor version.

Missing a feature? Just [open an issue](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/issues) and we'll take a look!

## Newsletter

Stay up to date with the latest news and updates about the Capawesome, Capacitor, and Ionic ecosystem by subscribing to our [Capawesome Newsletter](https://cloud.capawesome.io/newsletter/).

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker
npx cap sync
```

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

| Android                                                                                                                                            | iOS                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/184545710-a837f45f-e335-4903-b3a9-e1f30b42163f.gif" width="324" alt="Android Demo" /> | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/184545717-a10291e4-95fe-4453-91f7-c04246c61dec.gif" width="266" alt="iOS Demo" /> |

## Usage

```typescript
import { DatetimePicker } from '@capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker';

const present = async () => {
  const date = new Date('1995-12-24T02:23:00');

  const { value } = await DatetimePicker.present({
    cancelButtonText: 'Cancel',
    doneButtonText: 'Ok',
    mode: 'time',
    value: date.toISOString(),
    theme: 'dark',
    locale: 'en-US',
  });

  return value;
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`present(...)`](#present)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### present(...)

```typescript
present(options?: PresentOptions | undefined) => Promise<PresentResult>
```

Open the datetime picker.

An error is thrown if the input is canceled or dismissed by the user.

Only available on Android and iOS.

| Param         | Type                                                      |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#presentoptions">PresentOptions</a></code> |

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#presentresult">PresentResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 0.0.1

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### PresentResult

| Prop        | Type                | Description                                                                                          | Since |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`value`** | <code>string</code> | The value entered by the user. The format of this value matches the value of the `format` parameter. | 0.0.1 |


#### PresentOptions

| Prop                        | Type                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Default                                     | Since |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`cancelButtonText`**      | <code>string</code>                         | The cancel button text.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | <code>'Cancel'</code>                       | 0.0.1 |
| **`doneButtonText`**        | <code>string</code>                         | The done button text.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | <code>'Ok'</code>                           | 0.0.1 |
| **`format`**                | <code>string</code>                         | The format in which values are received and returned.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | <code>'yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.sss'Z''</code> | 0.0.1 |
| **`locale`**                | <code>string</code>                         | BCP 47 language tag to define the language of the UI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                             | 0.0.2 |
| **`max`**                   | <code>string</code>                         | The latest date and time to accept. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter. This value must specify a date string later than or equal to the one specified by the `min` attribute.                                                    |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`min`**                   | <code>string</code>                         | The earliest date and time to accept. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter. This value must specify a date string earlier than or equal to the one specified by the `max` attribute.                                                |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`mode`**                  | <code>'date' \| 'time' \| 'datetime'</code> | Whether you want a date or time or datetime picker.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | <code>'datetime'</code>                     | 0.0.1 |
| **`theme`**                 | <code>'auto' \| 'light' \| 'dark'</code>    | Choose the theme that the datetime picker should have. With `auto` the system theme is used. This value overwrites the `theme` configuration value. Only available on Android and iOS. Spinner options only available on Android                                       |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`value`**                 | <code>string</code>                         | The predefined value when opening the picker. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter.                                                                                                                                                 |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`androidTimePickerMode`** | <code>'clock' \| 'spinner'</code>           | Whether to use the spinner or clock mode for the time picker on Android. This value overwrites the `androidTimePickerMode` configuration value. Only available on Android.                                                                                             |                                             | 5.1.0 |
| **`androidDatePickerMode`** | <code>'spinner' \| 'calendar'</code>        | Whether to use the calendar or spinner mode for the date picker on Android. This value overwrites the `androidDatePickerMode` configuration value. Only available on Android.                                                                                          |                                             | 5.1.0 |
| **`minuteInterval`**        | <code>number</code>                         | The minute interval of the time picker. This controls the granularity of the minute selector (e.g., 15 for 0, 15, 30, 45). The value must be evenly divisible into 60. Only available on iOS when using time or datetime modes. On Android, this parameter is ignored. | <code>1</code>                              | 6.1.0 |

</docgen-api>

## Credits

The iOS implementation of this plugin is based on [RPicker](https://github.com/rheyansh/RPicker) which is licensed under [MIT](https://github.com/rheyansh/RPicker/blob/master/LICENSE).

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/datetime-picker/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/datetime-picker/LICENSE).

Commit message:

feat: implement cancel method for datetime picker (#661)

packages/datetime-picker/README.md, after:

# @capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker

Capacitor plugin for seamless date and time selection with advanced features like localization, theming, and more. Available for Android and iOS.

<div class="capawesome-z29o10a">
  <a href="https://cloud.capawesome.io/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Deliver Live Updates to your Capacitor app with Capawesome Cloud" src="https://cloud.capawesome.io/assets/banners/cloud-deploy-real-time-app-updates.png?t=1" />
  </a>
</div>

## Features

We are proud to offer one of the most complete and feature-rich Capacitor plugins for date and time picking. Here are some of the key features:

- 🖥️ **Cross-platform**: Supports Android and iOS.
- 📅 **Multiple modes**: Date, time, and datetime picker modes.
- 🌍 **Localization**: Support for BCP 47 language tags.
- 🎨 **Theming**: Auto, light, and dark theme support.
- ⚡ **Custom formats**: Define your own date/time format strings.
- 🔒 **Min/Max constraints**: Set minimum and maximum selectable dates/times.
- 📱 **Native UI**: Uses platform-specific picker components.
- ⚙️ **Flexible configuration**: Customizable button texts and picker modes.
- 🔁 **Up-to-date**: Always supports the latest Capacitor version.

Missing a feature? Just [open an issue](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/issues) and we'll take a look!

## Newsletter

Stay up to date with the latest news and updates about the Capawesome, Capacitor, and Ionic ecosystem by subscribing to our [Capawesome Newsletter](https://cloud.capawesome.io/newsletter/).

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker
npx cap sync
```

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

| Android                                                                                                                                            | iOS                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/184545710-a837f45f-e335-4903-b3a9-e1f30b42163f.gif" width="324" alt="Android Demo" /> | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13857929/184545717-a10291e4-95fe-4453-91f7-c04246c61dec.gif" width="266" alt="iOS Demo" /> |

## Usage

```typescript
import { DatetimePicker } from '@capawesome-team/capacitor-datetime-picker';

const present = async () => {
  const date = new Date('1995-12-24T02:23:00');

  const { value } = await DatetimePicker.present({
    cancelButtonText: 'Cancel',
    doneButtonText: 'Ok',
    mode: 'time',
    value: date.toISOString(),
    theme: 'dark',
    locale: 'en-US',
  });

  return value;
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`present(...)`](#present)
* [`cancel()`](#cancel)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### present(...)

```typescript
present(options?: PresentOptions | undefined) => Promise<PresentResult>
```

Open the datetime picker.

An error is thrown if the input is canceled or dismissed by the user.

Only available on Android and iOS.

| Param         | Type                                                      |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#presentoptions">PresentOptions</a></code> |

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#presentresult">PresentResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 0.0.1

--------------------


### cancel()

```typescript
cancel() => Promise<void>
```

Cancel the currently active datetime picker.

If there is no active picker, this method does nothing.

Only available on Android and iOS.

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### PresentResult

| Prop        | Type                | Description                                                                                          | Since |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`value`** | <code>string</code> | The value entered by the user. The format of this value matches the value of the `format` parameter. | 0.0.1 |


#### PresentOptions

| Prop                        | Type                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Default                                     | Since |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`cancelButtonText`**      | <code>string</code>                         | The cancel button text.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | <code>'Cancel'</code>                       | 0.0.1 |
| **`doneButtonText`**        | <code>string</code>                         | The done button text.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | <code>'Ok'</code>                           | 0.0.1 |
| **`format`**                | <code>string</code>                         | The format in which values are received and returned.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | <code>'yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.sss'Z''</code> | 0.0.1 |
| **`locale`**                | <code>string</code>                         | BCP 47 language tag to define the language of the UI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |                                             | 0.0.2 |
| **`max`**                   | <code>string</code>                         | The latest date and time to accept. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter. This value must specify a date string later than or equal to the one specified by the `min` attribute.                                                    |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`min`**                   | <code>string</code>                         | The earliest date and time to accept. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter. This value must specify a date string earlier than or equal to the one specified by the `max` attribute.                                                |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`mode`**                  | <code>'date' \| 'time' \| 'datetime'</code> | Whether you want a date or time or datetime picker.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | <code>'datetime'</code>                     | 0.0.1 |
| **`theme`**                 | <code>'auto' \| 'light' \| 'dark'</code>    | Choose the theme that the datetime picker should have. With `auto` the system theme is used. This value overwrites the `theme` configuration value. Only available on Android and iOS. Spinner options only available on Android                                       |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`value`**                 | <code>string</code>                         | The predefined value when opening the picker. The format of this value must match the value of the `format` parameter.                                                                                                                                                 |                                             | 0.0.1 |
| **`androidTimePickerMode`** | <code>'clock' \| 'spinner'</code>           | Whether to use the spinner or clock mode for the time picker on Android. This value overwrites the `androidTimePickerMode` configuration value. Only available on Android.                                                                                             |                                             | 5.1.0 |
| **`androidDatePickerMode`** | <code>'spinner' \| 'calendar'</code>        | Whether to use the calendar or spinner mode for the date picker on Android. This value overwrites the `androidDatePickerMode` configuration value. Only available on Android.                                                                                          |                                             | 5.1.0 |
| **`minuteInterval`**        | <code>number</code>                         | The minute interval of the time picker. This controls the granularity of the minute selector (e.g., 15 for 0, 15, 30, 45). The value must be evenly divisible into 60. Only available on iOS when using time or datetime modes. On Android, this parameter is ignored. | <code>1</code>                              | 7.1.0 |

</docgen-api>

## Credits

The iOS implementation of this plugin is based on [RPicker](https://github.com/rheyansh/RPicker) which is licensed under [MIT](https://github.com/rheyansh/RPicker/blob/master/LICENSE).

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/datetime-picker/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/datetime-picker/LICENSE).
