packages/photo-editor/README.md, before:

# @capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor

Capacitor plugin that allows the user to edit a photo.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor
npx cap sync
```

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

## Usage

```typescript
import { PhotoEditor } from '@capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor';

const editPhoto = async () => {
  await PhotoEditor.editPhoto({ path: 'data/image.png' });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`editPhoto(...)`](#editphoto)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### editPhoto(...)

```typescript
editPhoto(options: EditPhotoOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Edit a photo at a given path.

Only available on Android.

| Param         | Type                                                          |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#editphotooptions">EditPhotoOptions</a></code> |

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### EditPhotoOptions

| Prop       | Type                | Description                   |
| ---------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **`path`** | <code>string</code> | The path of the file to edit. |

</docgen-api>

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/photo-editor/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/photo-editor/LICENSE).

## Credits

This plugin is based on the [Capacitor Photo Editor](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-photo-editor) plugin.
Thanks to everyone who contributed to the project!

Commit message:

docs(photo-editor): update `README.md`

packages/photo-editor/README.md, after:

# @capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor

Capacitor plugin that allows the user to edit a photo.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor
npx cap sync
```

## Configuration

No configuration required for this plugin.

## Demo

A working example can be found here: [robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo](https://github.com/robingenz/capacitor-plugin-demo)

| Android                                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/assets/13857929/062c0623-ebb2-4782-a464-b4bebd2aa58d" width="324" /> |

## Usage

```typescript
import { PhotoEditor } from '@capawesome/capacitor-photo-editor';

const editPhoto = async () => {
  await PhotoEditor.editPhoto({ path: 'data/image.png' });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`editPhoto(...)`](#editphoto)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### editPhoto(...)

```typescript
editPhoto(options: EditPhotoOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Edit a photo at a given path.

**Attention**: A suitable photo editing app must be installed (e.g. Google Photos)
and the user should overwrite the image when saving
so that the path to the image is not lost.

Only available on Android.

| Param         | Type                                                          |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#editphotooptions">EditPhotoOptions</a></code> |

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### EditPhotoOptions

| Prop       | Type                | Description                   |
| ---------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **`path`** | <code>string</code> | The path of the file to edit. |

</docgen-api>

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/photo-editor/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/photo-editor/LICENSE).

## Credits

This plugin is based on the [Capacitor Photo Editor](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-photo-editor) plugin.
Thanks to everyone who contributed to the project!
