packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/README.md, before:

# @capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support

Capacitor plugin to support [edge-to-edge](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/layout/edge-to-edge) display on Android with advanced features like setting the background color of the status bar and navigation bar.

<div class="capawesome-z29o10a">
  <a href="https://cloud.capawesome.io/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Deliver Live Updates to your Capacitor app with Capawesome Cloud" src="https://cloud.capawesome.io/assets/banners/cloud-build-and-deploy-capacitor-apps.png?t=1" />
  </a>
</div>

| Before                                                                                                      | After                                                                                                       | Before                                                                                                      | After                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1c42aa63-1191-4b9b-860f-ffc47881d815" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4df4e58-0c21-45b5-aadd-ca197308016a" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/22c94f95-a0c4-4ace-8a3b-3a0feabf9191" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/21ece022-fb74-4067-889b-6922ecd0e2a5" width="200" /> |

## Compatibility

| Plugin Version | Capacitor Version | Status         |
| -------------- | ----------------- | -------------- |
| 8.x.x          | >=8.x.x           | Active support |

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support
npx cap sync
```

### Android

If you are using the [Capacitor Keyboard](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/keyboard) plugin, make sure to set the `resizeOnFullScreen` property to `false` (default) in your Capacitor Configuration file:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "Keyboard": {
      "resizeOnFullScreen": false
    }
  }
}
```

Otherwise, the web view will be resized to fit the screen, which may cause issues with this plugin, see [this comment](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/issues/490#issuecomment-2826435796).

## Configuration

<docgen-config>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

| Prop                  | Type                | Description                                                                                | Since |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| **`backgroundColor`** | <code>string</code> | The hexadecimal color to set as the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. | 7.1.0 |

### Examples

In `capacitor.config.json`:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "EdgeToEdge": {
      "backgroundColor": "#ffffff"
    }
  }
}
```

In `capacitor.config.ts`:

```ts
/// <reference types="@capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support" />

import { CapacitorConfig } from '@capacitor/cli';

const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  plugins: {
    EdgeToEdge: {
      backgroundColor: "#ffffff",
    },
  },
};

export default config;
```

</docgen-config>

## Usage

The plugin **only needs to be installed**. It applies insets to the web view to support edge-to-edge display on Android. The plugin also provides a method to set the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. It's recommended to use this method in combination with the [Status Bar](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/status-bar) plugin.

```typescript
import { EdgeToEdge } from '@capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support';
import { StatusBar, Style } from '@capacitor/status-bar';

const enable = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.enable();
};

const disable = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.disable();
};

const getInsets = async () => {
  const result = await EdgeToEdge.getInsets();
  console.log('Insets:', result);
};

const setBackgroundColor = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.setBackgroundColor({ color: '#ffffff' });
  await StatusBar.setStyle({ style: Style.Light });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`enable()`](#enable)
* [`disable()`](#disable)
* [`getInsets()`](#getinsets)
* [`setBackgroundColor(...)`](#setbackgroundcolor)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### enable()

```typescript
enable() => Promise<void>
```

Enable the edge-to-edge mode.

Only available on Android.

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### disable()

```typescript
disable() => Promise<void>
```

Disable the edge-to-edge mode.

Only available on Android.

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### getInsets()

```typescript
getInsets() => Promise<GetInsetsResult>
```

Return the insets that are currently applied to the webview.

Only available on Android.

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#getinsetsresult">GetInsetsResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### setBackgroundColor(...)

```typescript
setBackgroundColor(options: SetBackgroundColorOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Set the background color of the status bar and navigation bar.

Only available on Android.

| Param         | Type                                                                            |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#setbackgroundcoloroptions">SetBackgroundColorOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 7.0.0

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### GetInsetsResult

| Prop         | Type                | Description                                                                  | Since |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`bottom`** | <code>number</code> | The bottom inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android. | 7.2.0 |
| **`left`**   | <code>number</code> | The left inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.   | 7.2.0 |
| **`right`**  | <code>number</code> | The right inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.  | 7.2.0 |
| **`top`**    | <code>number</code> | The top inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.    | 7.2.0 |


#### SetBackgroundColorOptions

| Prop        | Type                | Description                                                                                | Since |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| **`color`** | <code>string</code> | The hexadecimal color to set as the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. | 7.0.0 |

</docgen-api>

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs(android-edge-to-edge-support): clarify plugin functionality and compatibility with Capacitor 8

packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/README.md, after:

# @capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support

Capacitor plugin to support [edge-to-edge](https://developer.android.com/develop/ui/views/layout/edge-to-edge) display on Android with advanced features like setting the background color of the status bar and navigation bar.

<div class="capawesome-z29o10a">
  <a href="https://cloud.capawesome.io/" target="_blank">
    <img alt="Deliver Live Updates to your Capacitor app with Capawesome Cloud" src="https://cloud.capawesome.io/assets/banners/cloud-build-and-deploy-capacitor-apps.png?t=1" />
  </a>
</div>

| Before                                                                                                      | After                                                                                                       | Before                                                                                                      | After                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1c42aa63-1191-4b9b-860f-ffc47881d815" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a4df4e58-0c21-45b5-aadd-ca197308016a" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/22c94f95-a0c4-4ace-8a3b-3a0feabf9191" width="200" /> | <image src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/21ece022-fb74-4067-889b-6922ecd0e2a5" width="200" /> |

**Attention:** Despite its name, this plugin doesn't enable edge-to-edge mode by default. Instead, it preserves the traditional app behavior by applying proper insets to the webview, preventing Android's edge-to-edge changes from affecting apps that haven't been designed to support it.

## Compatibility

| Plugin Version | Capacitor Version | Status         |
| -------------- | ----------------- | -------------- |
| 8.x.x          | >=8.x.x           | Active support |

## Installation

```bash
npm install @capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support
npx cap sync
```

### Android

If you are using the [Capacitor Keyboard](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/keyboard) plugin, make sure to set the `resizeOnFullScreen` property to `false` (default) in your Capacitor Configuration file:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "Keyboard": {
      "resizeOnFullScreen": false
    }
  }
}
```

Otherwise, the web view will be resized to fit the screen, which may cause issues with this plugin, see [this comment](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/issues/490#issuecomment-2826435796).

## Configuration

<docgen-config>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

| Prop                  | Type                | Description                                                                                | Since |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| **`backgroundColor`** | <code>string</code> | The hexadecimal color to set as the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. | 7.1.0 |

### Examples

In `capacitor.config.json`:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "EdgeToEdge": {
      "backgroundColor": "#ffffff"
    }
  }
}
```

In `capacitor.config.ts`:

```ts
/// <reference types="@capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support" />

import { CapacitorConfig } from '@capacitor/cli';

const config: CapacitorConfig = {
  plugins: {
    EdgeToEdge: {
      backgroundColor: "#ffffff",
    },
  },
};

export default config;
```

</docgen-config>

## Usage

The plugin **only needs to be installed**. It applies insets to the web view to support edge-to-edge display on Android. The plugin also provides a method to set the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. It's recommended to use this method in combination with the [Status Bar](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/status-bar) plugin.

```typescript
import { EdgeToEdge } from '@capawesome/capacitor-android-edge-to-edge-support';
import { StatusBar, Style } from '@capacitor/status-bar';

const enable = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.enable();
};

const disable = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.disable();
};

const getInsets = async () => {
  const result = await EdgeToEdge.getInsets();
  console.log('Insets:', result);
};

const setBackgroundColor = async () => {
  await EdgeToEdge.setBackgroundColor({ color: '#ffffff' });
  await StatusBar.setStyle({ style: Style.Light });
};
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`enable()`](#enable)
* [`disable()`](#disable)
* [`getInsets()`](#getinsets)
* [`setBackgroundColor(...)`](#setbackgroundcolor)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### enable()

```typescript
enable() => Promise<void>
```

Enable the edge-to-edge mode.

Only available on Android.

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### disable()

```typescript
disable() => Promise<void>
```

Disable the edge-to-edge mode.

Only available on Android.

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### getInsets()

```typescript
getInsets() => Promise<GetInsetsResult>
```

Return the insets that are currently applied to the webview.

Only available on Android.

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#getinsetsresult">GetInsetsResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 7.2.0

--------------------


### setBackgroundColor(...)

```typescript
setBackgroundColor(options: SetBackgroundColorOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Set the background color of the status bar and navigation bar.

Only available on Android.

| Param         | Type                                                                            |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#setbackgroundcoloroptions">SetBackgroundColorOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 7.0.0

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### GetInsetsResult

| Prop         | Type                | Description                                                                  | Since |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- |
| **`bottom`** | <code>number</code> | The bottom inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android. | 7.2.0 |
| **`left`**   | <code>number</code> | The left inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.   | 7.2.0 |
| **`right`**  | <code>number</code> | The right inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.  | 7.2.0 |
| **`top`**    | <code>number</code> | The top inset that was applied to the webview. Only available on Android.    | 7.2.0 |


#### SetBackgroundColorOptions

| Prop        | Type                | Description                                                                                | Since |
| ----------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| **`color`** | <code>string</code> | The hexadecimal color to set as the background color of the status bar and navigation bar. | 7.0.0 |

</docgen-api>

## FAQ

### What about Capacitor 8's built-in edge-to-edge support?

Capacitor 8 introduced native edge-to-edge functionality through the internal `SystemBars` plugin. While this covers many common scenarios, this plugin addresses additional edge cases that aren't yet fully resolved in the Capacitor core implementation. We plan to deprecate this plugin once all edge cases are properly handled in Capacitor core.

### Is this plugin compatible with Capacitor's SystemBars API?

Yes, this plugin is partially compatible with the new [SystemBars API](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/system-bars) introduced in Capacitor 8. For example, methods like `setStyle()` from the SystemBars API are supported and can be used alongside this plugin without conflicts.

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/CHANGELOG.md).

## License

See [LICENSE](https://github.com/capawesome-team/capacitor-plugins/blob/main/packages/android-edge-to-edge-support/LICENSE).
